---
title: 'June 2023'
description: 'Description'
language: 'EN'
author: 'Stijn Bakker'
date: '2023-07-01'
published: false
---

Welcome to this first edition of my newsletter! Feel still a bit awkward to be putting out my thoughts like this, but I'm excited to start this experiment. I wrote a little bit about [why I start this newsletter](/writings/why-a-newsletter). In short; as an accountability tool for myself to make all the things I view, think and note down concrete, and hopefully provide you with a bit of value.

In this edition, I'll talk about Apple Vision Pro, surge of generative AI integrations, AirBnB's purge of product managers and a lot more. Let's dive right in!

## The true driver of spatial computing: SwiftUI

Apple invented 'spatial computing'. Some think it is hype, which it probably is. But is just also might be a game-changing new paradigm. The problem - we don't yet know what it is.

But I believe that is the beauty of what Apple has built here: an accessible tookit for developers to open up their creativity, and start to define what spatial computing can mean. A combination of an extremely powerful device, and a very friendly developer environment.

SwiftUI is becoming a new paradigm for building user interfaces. A bit like HTML and CSS, it is rapid to build highly advanced and complex interfaces using just a few lines of code. That will open up creativity, and that in itself will be the real gamechanger here.

More on this [here](https://www.stijnbakker.com/writings/spatial-computing-driver)

---

## EU's step towards regulating AI: don't shoot yourself in the foot

Genie is out the bottle.

Try the carrot, instead of the stick.

EU is scrambling to regulate AI. Too late. Why? And how?
Every politician is all panicky because of ChatGPT. Why? Because people don't understand it, yet it seems earily human. "Job displacement" is buzzing all around. Whether that will actually become reality is irrelevant, now we're in a race to regulate AI as quick as we can.

The genie is out the bottle. And EU, as much as you'd want to regulate training data, algorithms and hosting providers of open-source models, you can't put the genie back in the lamp.

## The end of (product) management is near?

Product managers have always been a bit of a joke in the tech scene. What the hell do these people do all day? And it seems AirBnB is now willing to properly test that hypothesis, by purging all its product managers.

Why? Officially it is called a reorganisation, where product managers shift to a more marketing focused role. Inspired by Apple. I think however the designers and engineers have figured out a way to work well together, no external 'priority manager' necessary anymore. At least, that's the experiment.

And as we see AirBnB PMs complaining about the shift on Twitter, I can't help but wonder - what is going on in tech land, and could this be the start of the end of (middle) management.

I hope so. I hope designers and engineers indeed have figured out a way to work together, perhaps with cool tools like the new Figma Developer Mode.

## EU regulations attempt: trying to hold water with only your hands

EU has jumped in the global political race to regulate the scare tech of artificial intelligence. It ensures that AI has regulation for specific applications (like legal and biometric applications) and ensures that training data is required to be nice and clean (whatever that means).

One last thing the act seems to be moving towards is trying to 'ban' open source model development. Through the restriction of collaborative platforms like Github.

I am skeptical with regulation. Because it is driven by fear, and potentially way to limiting. You can hold yourself to a high standard of what you perceive to be safety, others (China) won't. Implicitly, the act is build on the assumption that other governments will put similar regulations in place.

The other challenge of regulating AI is that we do not understand what it is. We try and wrap our heads around it like it will be like the internet. That would mean that only a handful of internet companies would get really powerful. But already we see the performance of open-source models surpass those of commercial providers. What do we do in that case to regulate it? If these models are applied and developed with ever more ease, decentrally. Deployed on makeshift servers? Good luck with monitoring that, without going seriously in the terrain of thought-policing.

To be continued.

## Slurry of generative AI

It seems like every tool on the internet is announcing integration with generative AI. Figma allows you to generate designs. Framer allows you to generate websites. Bing and Microsoft Edge have it crammed in there wherever they can.

It seems we have a bit of a hype on our hands.

Don't get me wrong, I'm in awe of what generative AI can do.

But we already start to see the implications. Articles written by AI don't get the traction that human written content does. Framer websites generated with AI are basically all the same, just with a bit of different colors. And the same goes for Figma.

Problem to me seems to be this - you do need to put some creativity in yourself, before it really becomes useful to leverage generative AI as a tool. For example, if you come up with a very unique design for a button or two in Figma, you can easily use the generative AI to create designs for the different states of that button. But simply prompting FramerAI to 'build me a landing page for this product idea', won't give you a really creative result.

It seems to me that is where the bubble will pop. It won't be a big pop, since a lot of tools seem to be applying the technology really well (e.g. Github Copilot).

## On my radar

## Awesome stuff I'd like to share:

- Brilliant interactive 3D explainer blog-posts on everything from mechanical watches to GPS signals on ::Chiechanow's website::. [Check it here](https://ciechanow.ski/gps/) (and please do take the time to really deep-dive into an article) website
-

- EU regulation act
  - What, so what, now what?
- Out-there takes
- My takes on the hot topics
  - Generative AI slurry announcements:
    - What: Figma, MidJourney, OpenAI app store, Notion, Adobe Firefly - generating designs, text, images and videos is advancing rapidly.
    - So what: impressive tech, but that's not the interesting bit. It is a very powerful enabler for primarily marketing, which is a big painpoint for companies, but that's not the exciting bit. It is interesting
      - Yet at the same time I have the feeling, like with a lot of platforms, that it is sort of ductaped together. Remember the website builders of the 90s, with their impossible-to-read code?
      - A lot of fuzz around copyright stuff - I'm not too worried about that.
  - [[Apple Vision Pro]]:
    - the launch of a new platform, not yet a platform. Primarily excited about the ease of programming Apple enables, thus enabling developers and designers to free up their thinking. Eventually this will lead to applications that are so valuable to actual users that by the time the tech is so light and wearable, it will be a no-brainer. Particularly for business applications - developers work anywhere with multiple displays, augmentation. Industries locked in to non-tech will be left behind, as always (article). They will stick to Microsoft Word and Excel for another 30 years.
  -
- Thoughts I have
  - Figma launched AI (surprise) - generatively designing based on design best practices. But what will it do to originality?
- Things I'd just like to share because I'm excited about them
  - https://ciechanow.ski/gps/ website
  -

* Things I keep an eye on to maybe ever become trneds
  - [[AirBnB]]'s latest move to make product management fully redundant overnight. What, how and why? Personally I can't wait till we purge process managers, product managers and project managers.
  -
